Gwenevere Abriel: Justin Romero
Gwenevere Abriel: Morning.
Morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, we got a couple of logistics. If you could find a way to turn your phones, you're not sideways.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're
Justin’s iPhone: There you go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, open up a note, I'm. See if you can find to a year in your car or something truck. I'm find maybe a way to kind of sit it on dashboard and windshield. Sometimes there's all or something to kind of when you
Gwenevere Abriel: start opening up a note, while you're settling in.
Justin’s iPhone: Think I messed up here.
Gwenevere Abriel: A little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: You
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, start to get familiar with this online.
Gwenevere Abriel: Format, you'll probably run across opportunities for little gadgets for a car and little ways to kind of hold up a phone. So keep your eye out for some people decide to do that other people sort of do what you're doing, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: I still got open up a note here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you while I'm opening it up. Can you update me on how your weekend. What did you spend time
Justin’s iPhone: There was good.
Justin’s iPhone: We, we just bought the house like I was telling you
So,
Justin’s iPhone: We've been moving in.
Justin’s iPhone: And so we're almost done.
Justin’s iPhone: Let's see, we started off like this week. We started off in the living room and then we went from the living room to the kitchen to the kitchen to the sunroom to the dining room to the bedroom. Now we've got to do the other bedroom in the master clause. We've got a lot of
Gwenevere Abriel: Privilege dilemma. Right. You're in a home that you're really proud of.
Justin’s iPhone: Yeah, like if we're like a mile away from the lake.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I remember that water being an important part of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. And did you feel like your wife is your wife and mother of your children. I forget.
Justin’s iPhone: No, no children of my own over to stoke little
Gwenevere Abriel: Chip, you have stepchildren yeah I did because I remember the joke about the dogs.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did anyone or you kind of acknowledge her as a mother on Mother's Day.
Justin’s iPhone: Yeah yeah took her to my parents house for a barbecue. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: She feel loved.
Gwenevere Abriel: more seconds here, it's actually not that easy for me to triple task because I want to listen to you and look at you and then I'm not doing my note.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I try to tell people is, it's almost like an awkward silence on the phone where you're where it's quiet. You might say, Hello, are you still there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so if there's quiet in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: We have to acclimate to the awkward like silence, in a sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a part of therapy. It's almost like an intervention, but it feels weird in in telemedicine.
Justin’s iPhone: For sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep. Okay. So, um, so this is going to be our first meeting loops cast that was a sad effort on my part, I gotta try again fast or bio psychosocial. So this is our first time meeting where we get to sort of chill and I'm kind of focus, wherever you want to focus of
Gwenevere Abriel: What have you, why don't we start from the outside and just sort of what's this sort of first body slash of
Gwenevere Abriel: Having to attend group engaging in this telemedicine in group medicine scheduling managing this life, using the tele health, what has been like for you so far.
Justin’s iPhone: Very, very difficult.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Justin’s iPhone: Pretty much. My last my last my other doctors are usually just go in, I visit and I leave, and it's a couple minutes.
Justin’s iPhone: Each time and now that was it. And it was maybe every other month or once a month and and all I had to do. And now, since the coronavirus we, you know, and I'm you losing my main job and my insurance over there.
Justin’s iPhone: So like, and then coming back over here to where you know I just work with my pops and stuff. It's like switching my insurance and doing everything it's been difficult.
Gwenevere Abriel: The I heard a couple of things. The intensity, the frequency of expectations from bright heart health from this substance abuse treatment program from this MIT program is more demanding. Am I hearing that correctly.
Justin’s iPhone: Yeah, because honestly like
Justin’s iPhone: I guess I guess I did have problems with my pain medicine and but but the thing is is the same time I like
Justin’s iPhone: I was switched over to Suboxone because they figured
Justin’s iPhone: It lasted longer like and help me better with my pain than the actually taking so many Laura tabs or so much pain medicine that I was taking this actually lasted longer and sorta help me with the pain better
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, so
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's intensity. There's frequency. And then what do you think the meaning of what you just said was to me. What do you think that we wanted me to hear on that part.
Justin’s iPhone: Well, I think I want to hear that. Like, I guess, you know, the all the group meetings and all that. Like, it's sort of like
Justin’s iPhone: I don't know. I don't really under like it's it's difficult. I guess it's just difficult for me to just to enjoy, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you spent and you got to correct me because it's been a minute, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you spend a good chunk of time I have it in my head, and you have to forgive me or you don't have to hope you can. Was it a year or two that you spend a chunk of time in a residential treatment program.
Justin’s iPhone: Two years.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are they treating
Justin’s iPhone: I'm
Justin’s iPhone: Pretty much it was away because because when I watched my friend die here in Santa Fe, New Mexico, I'm
Justin’s iPhone: That case went very political. The kid who died was a the nephew of the judge the person who shot him was, you know, his, his. He was part of the governor's security and then I was just sort of there.
Justin’s iPhone: And so
Justin’s iPhone: I ended up
Justin’s iPhone: In the long story. So, sort of like you'd like make that story shorts. Like, I started got kicked out of the steak.
Gwenevere Abriel: Steak Sta.
Justin’s iPhone: Sort of
Justin’s iPhone: Sort of like that's the best way I can put is like is like they just, you know, the best thing to do was just to say like here. Like you go off over here and and do your five years somewhere else. We just don't really want to deal with you over here.
Justin’s iPhone: But I did my part for my friend and you know I have to testify and change my life, real quick. When that'll happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes I get lost with pronouns. Let me see if
Gwenevere Abriel: The eye and who is the you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, are you saying that you in order to do something that I don't quite haven't heard yet you decided to leave the state and go to two years.
Justin’s iPhone: Ago kicked out of the state.
Justin’s iPhone: By the judge.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how did that order sound. Mr. Romero, you need to reside elsewhere and don't return to this state until out of that sound like was
Justin’s iPhone: There was like we're giving you a second chance.
Justin’s iPhone: So the best if you left and you do, you're going to give us two years with an out of state rehab.
Justin’s iPhone: In Texas, which they already have lined up for me. And then after you finish that two years of rehab, you'll go ahead and give us
Justin’s iPhone: While you're doing that rehab two years GPS monitoring like you're in jail while you're at that rehab and then another five years.
Justin’s iPhone: So the two years, even if I finished those two years. My next five years, didn't start until I was actually done with the rehab to go ahead and start my my my probation.
Gwenevere Abriel: So was part of your, your position.
Gwenevere Abriel: To say to the judge, whatever your I was there, does that have to do with substance use. Is that why you decided the substance abuse was the best option for you.
Justin’s iPhone: Because I had passed, substance abuse problems when I was younger. At that time, my lawyer just thought it was best for me to play the substance abuse card to get out of of possible prison time
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I see.
Gwenevere Abriel: So did anyone in those two years.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that rehab a call it
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you connect with anybody that you're like oh my gosh, this is what therapy is like you really jive with someone
Justin’s iPhone: No, I don't feel like I feel like
Justin’s iPhone: I feel like I was gonna work slave
Justin’s iPhone: I worked my ass off.
Justin’s iPhone: And then the counseling that I did get I feel like
Justin’s iPhone: Came out of a book or came out of came out of trusting God
Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Justin’s iPhone: That makes sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah. That right there is cookie cutter.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that can feel dismissive and invalidating as if you're just a number, and and not the kind of unconditional regard that I think truly effective therapy needs and I'm, I'm always embarrassed to be a part of that field. When that happens, and I'm so sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sorry we failed you. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, but right I want our first impression to be one. And you'll hear them sometimes in group.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll hear, Oh, I love my therapist, you know, may not be me, but somewhere along the line where they oh he she was so wonderful and I really did this gross ba ba ba ba ba.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, but it doesn't sound like you've you've kind of had that experience yet. I know you know I think I know from from your wife right you've said I really know that I'm unconditionally loved, no matter what. You know what it is but I
Gwenevere Abriel: Felt this third therapeutic alliance yet with with him, though. Right. Um, it's really important for me to know so
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's keep talking. So trust is a minute because I have a lot to overcome. I have to overcome that, you know, you're not going to end up feeling like you're just a number. And so I'm up for the task. You're not the first person to come in here kind of even wounded by a helping professional
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So before you came in here today. I was thinking about I real quick just reviewed, you know, first time to meet. I say, all right, what are your goals. But you know, it's like
Gwenevere Abriel: I
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, I didn't have any time to think about it and and I like to circle back to those and really refined them and make them even more personal. But one thing I did notice she shared straightaway had to do with dreams.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or nightmares rather
Gwenevere Abriel: It was, is it safe to assume, and you can clarify this, these nightmares. You're talking about, are they are really lived experience of witnessing the the fatality of your friend.
Justin’s iPhone: Of numerous friends like I've watched. I watched my cousin died when I was 14 I watched my cousin dial is 13 of a heroin overdose in my arms.
Justin’s iPhone: We were using together.
Justin’s iPhone: And pretty much to do and and died in my arms when I was 14
Justin’s iPhone: Watch Frank die when I was 25 watched him get shot.
Justin’s iPhone: Um,
Justin’s iPhone: That's been a major part of my life. My ex wife died of a heroin overdose.
Gwenevere Abriel: How long ago was that
Justin’s iPhone: A few years after I'm done married my second marriage.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how many years for you. Was this
Justin’s iPhone: Was this for what after I'm laughter
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I just when she passed away. How far, how many years ago, I can
Justin’s iPhone: Well as, like, six years ago.
Justin’s iPhone: And then let's see, and then the death of both my cousins do it do to heroin.
Gwenevere Abriel: Age 1314 and then if you're
Justin’s iPhone: Them again and then again at 35 and 37
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: And you said you'd never so we've got 13 1425
Gwenevere Abriel: Your first wife age 3537 so you have these people that you care about that not only do they leave, they die. You have a lot of grief.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now do you grieve, have you actually like felt the feelings of grief, Or is that kind of like this foreign thing like Hey lady, I don't want to feel those feelings. I don't even talk about it, like what is grief that meaning to you.
Justin’s iPhone: I don't know. I don't feel like I've ever cried about, okay, never
Justin’s iPhone: So Beth is there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're you're sort of spiritual perspective and I can probably see if I looked in band. Sometimes we can see that little question they asked right before group. Hey, how much does religion or spirituality help support your recovery.
Justin’s iPhone: In general, or you pray over day
Gwenevere Abriel: Every day, what do you wonder, who do you pray to
Justin’s iPhone: God
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, do you have a formal faith that you sort of align yourself with or identify with.
Christianity.
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you always had that or is that kind of new for you.
Justin’s iPhone: Always sort of had that in my life, but
Justin’s iPhone: I feel like my wife's brought this part out more me than ever.
Gwenevere Abriel: And when you think of how Christ.
Gwenevere Abriel: How he can, in a sense, be a supportive figure for you in your recovery process. Has that ever been, like, oh yeah, I get it. I really understand the connection. Has that been something deeply felt for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Yeah.
Justin’s iPhone: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Justin’s iPhone: Do that again, explain that again.
Justin’s iPhone: I'm tired. I'm sort of tired so
Gwenevere Abriel: I
Justin’s iPhone: Learned right what you said, but just say it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, it's more, it's more about wanting to hear from you. So I'll just ask a closed ended question.
Gwenevere Abriel: Actually open ended. So, in what way has Christianity helped you in your recovery as I prepare
Justin’s iPhone: Just the way I trust.
Justin’s iPhone: Sort of gives me something to believe in, like,
Justin’s iPhone: Like where I trust like a, like, maybe there's something better. I mean by carefully. There's a better life. You know better.
Justin’s iPhone: You know, maybe there's heaven, you know, maybe, maybe I'll see them in heaven. Maybe I'll do this maybe and and i also, you know, I also feel like, you know, since I have changed my life and I'm not so crazy and wild that I used to be. Now, the way I live my life I sort of feel like
Justin’s iPhone: I have
Justin’s iPhone: To really explain that word, um, I just have more faith, I guess, and and that and things have been better for me.
Justin’s iPhone: I don't know how to explain it. My sense of my wife is sort of made me go to church with her and do all that stuff like like things have gotten better.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, so right. So you're seeing evidence that that faith or you literally attending church and showing sort of that commitment to it in a sense, showing up for it for the formal services prayer, in a sense, has you've seen some positive outcome.
Justin’s iPhone: Yeah, I mean, don't get me wrong I close up a storm.
Gwenevere Abriel: You cause
I cast
Justin’s iPhone: I smoke weed I smoke.
Justin’s iPhone: Weed and and I do a lot of different things. But you know what, like I'm not doing heroin or cocaine or math or I am doing like a lot of things. So I just feel like God sort of like, wow, you change your life really just sort of plus me on on a lot of things.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Justin’s iPhone: Does that make sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um you the structure of your sentence and the concepts. Yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you had mentioned that this rehab focused on almost a book approach as if it was my words cookie cutter and then there was also God. So we talked about it just now. Was that a welcome feeling being able to talk about that or was it an aversive one like oh here we go.
Justin’s iPhone: My God, like, I don't know, like whenever I try
Justin’s iPhone: Think of rehab, especially when I think of like going like my wife's family.
Justin’s iPhone: They all believe in that Christian rehab. Then I went to a teen challenge like they're like, oh, it's so good for you, blah, blah, blah.
Justin’s iPhone: Well, I was pushed into it for two years and they've only had to go for like nine months or a year, you know,
Justin’s iPhone: And I was pushed into it for two years where I couldn't leave for those two years.
Justin’s iPhone: And so when I hear them like try to talk good about it or do this or do that. It just pisses me off. And I'm just like,
Justin’s iPhone: Nah, because I saw like the ins and outs and I really saw how some people were and I get sort of judgmental towards those, those, those people who worked at program. But the thing is, is my guess. My, my.
Justin’s iPhone: My support and help came afterwards when I met my new one.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's something about being forced to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thing that maybe other people when they're not force might be benefiting from but since you were forced to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And maybe, did you see hypocrisy there maybe on one hand, someone was talking about compassionate love and generosity and then you saw hypocrisy is that what a piece of it that you saw
Justin’s iPhone: Yeah yeah
Justin’s iPhone: I saw like some people getting played favorites and then like always, never really favorite ties like like they always saw me as the troublemaker.
Justin’s iPhone: It just, that's just sort of delay. My life's always been so
Justin’s iPhone: I did my I did my thing. And I just
Thought
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's just take a real just look for a moment. I want to work on my nightmares. So I'm just going to do a quick little snapshot in time.
Gwenevere Abriel: I I enjoy and welcome working on your sort of that unconscious world we can definitely do dream work. But there's a lot to do. And I do want to get started, I want to empower with empower you with as many coping skills as we can. We'll get a sense of the direction you want to go as we
Start to do some of these interventions.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the first one I want to ask is how frequently are you having nightmares.
Justin’s iPhone: Three times a week or three, four times a week.
Gwenevere Abriel: And they wake up.
Justin’s iPhone: I don't sleep. I don't sleep much
Justin’s iPhone: I maybe sleep like four or five hours out of the day. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: If so, um, this sleep is actually a really, really important piece.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of well being and it's a quick indicator and sometimes a first indicator when other things aren't working. So it's a
Gwenevere Abriel: We could just stay right there for quite a while, sleep so important to everything functioning. So let's just let me just ask you
Gwenevere Abriel: When it's time for you to go to bed. Do you hate the idea. Try and stay awake. As long as you can, or do you try to go to sleep and can't kind of tell me about that initiation of sleep.
Justin’s iPhone: Um, well, I need surgery on L between seven and 11 on my back.
Justin’s iPhone: And then like my wrist had surgery on my wrist and then I need surgery on my shoulder and so like when I do when I do try to go lay down and go to bed. I'm in very I'm very uncomfortable.
Justin’s iPhone: So, so I started just lay there.
Justin’s iPhone: Are plenty of times I finally do fall asleep.
Justin’s iPhone: I have this dream I have I have these dreams of this this like I can't run fast enough. And there's this black shadow just trying to like pull me under
Justin’s iPhone: That's weird. It's a consistent dream to and then lately lately. Like, especially after my wife was in this car accident. I feel like he's trying to get my War two.
Gwenevere Abriel: And this black shadow. Make sure I heard you correctly, sometimes I'll repeat myself because of the tele health and I'm really sorry for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you saying that there's a bit of a theme. In fact, this black shadow is something that's chasing you, and you are always trying to get away, or does it get you or does it get other
Justin’s iPhone: Other people
Justin’s iPhone: Other people who died.
Gwenevere Abriel: And is it chasing you.
Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that a pretty. That's the theme is this black shadow chasing you, and now it's trying to get your wife. Yeah.
Justin’s iPhone: I know I'm trying to like
Justin’s iPhone: Keep my wife and my dream. I'm trying to chase her and I'm trying to keep her away from it and pain in the butt.
Justin’s iPhone: So I don't sleep. I'm constantly waking up and then like sometimes my life has to wake me up because I'll be like shaking or I'll be screaming in bed.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And once you wake up from that.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you do
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't go back. You literally get out of bed and go do something else.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And don't don't don't go back
Gwenevere Abriel: And just kind of surveying what you've tried already has anything been effective in addressing those distressing dreams. Maybe it was
Justin’s iPhone: Very good.
Justin’s iPhone: I've taken sleep medicine that's made it way worse.
Justin’s iPhone: Okay, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Nothing has helped. So things
Justin’s iPhone: Like if I sleep longer the dreams get worse. And then the days that I can sleep like Mike. Don't get me wrong, like, not every day throughout the week drawing get four hours of sleep because the days I do fall asleep, and I'm out my wife lets me sleep. She doesn't wake me up.
Justin’s iPhone: Like if let's say if I fell asleep at like 10 o'clock and and she saw that I was awake. I wasn't awake it and it was like six or seven or eight o'clock. She's gonna let me sleep.
Gwenevere Abriel: And by that you mean how many hours.
Justin’s iPhone: Sometimes, sometimes, like maybe one side of the week I'll sleep. A good 10 hour like a 10 or nine
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's this catch up. That happens
Justin’s iPhone: Yeah, when I get to a point. I think they're going to get to a complete point of exhaustion. But sometimes, like, I'll go all week where I feel like it's chasing and then let's say like on Saturday or Sunday, all of a sudden, I'll just collapse and I'll be out
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I've made a little note just about that, that theme that you just described, and it's going to be
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll be able to follow.
Gwenevere Abriel: The, the next time that you and I need though I'll be able to take this, I won't have to ask that same exact question again. Okay. I appreciate that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we have that as well. And then you also mentioned, I want to stay clean not get back on pain medicine. Now I didn't kind of say anything, then
Gwenevere Abriel: You are on
Gwenevere Abriel: A very strong pain us and
Justin’s iPhone: You know Suboxone yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: So some people just in that word pain medicine for some people, they're like oh really, you know, other people like yeah i know i just say it, I say pain medicine because what I really mean are the perks, or the offseason the hydro
Gwenevere Abriel: I just, that's what I say. But I just wanted psycho education. I need to do around this particular opiate I can. But you do know that it is a very strong
Justin’s iPhone: Oh yeah, I mean, it helps me a lot better than some other pain medicines.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's treats. Right. It's this long acting, it has this very sticky, sort of like normally an opiate sort of sits on that receptor. This one's kind of like a like a bent key once it gets in there. It's kind of tenacious.
Gwenevere Abriel: Want to pop off those opiate receptor, so it holds on about 2436 hours on sort of for that long acting
Gwenevere Abriel: analgesic effect. So, so you know that it's pain medicine.
Justin’s iPhone: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: What if we changed. Well, I don't know if we need to change it. So let's now that I know. You know, we, you know, I know. You know, I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm when you say this goal. I want to stay clean not get back on pain medicine. Do you want to change that goal. And in some ways, since you are on it now, like, Help me understand what to what to do with that particular phrase.
Justin’s iPhone: That with that phrase, I guess.
Justin’s iPhone: I guess I'd rather just be able to stay on Suboxone then and stay clean. Does that make sense.
Justin’s iPhone: I'd rather just just takes a boxing and stay clean
Gwenevere Abriel: For how long
Justin’s iPhone: For us to Milan.
Gwenevere Abriel: And okay
Gwenevere Abriel: So you want to be on this forever.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I want to stay clean. I'm gonna make a change.
Gwenevere Abriel: And stay on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oxygen for the rest of my life. I don't have a lot of you clients right that have already decided that they want to stay on this forever. I've actually there's fewer than you thinking in this particular program. Does that surprise you.
Justin’s iPhone: It does, but
Justin’s iPhone: For me, it's been such a life changer that I couldn't see going without it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well, we'll go with that. So what I did is I just changed the goal I changed it to. I want to stay clean and stay on Suboxone for the rest of my life. Does that feel closer, and indeed really matches what you want.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that'll be it for now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm very transparent, I will always if I can, I can explain the theory behind something if I can explain the psycho biology biological origin of something I will explain it as well as
Gwenevere Abriel: Sort of a perspective and there is a hope. My hope is that through psychotherapy, you will have adaptive coping skills that you will like and choose
Gwenevere Abriel: Instead of what you maybe have done before, but I don't want to get ahead of that. I'm just going to give you everything I got use them play with them, make them your own personalized them and English, sis. Let's keep talking and see what how it evolves. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And but there is a part of me that sort of wants you to want the same thing wants you to believe that you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Good enough. Just the way you
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't need an outside substance for sort of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Spiritual issue right that I'm okay stuff. And I don't know enough about sort of that early piece around the heroin use it 13 and there's a lot to learn about where that came about and how that came about.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I do hope. I kind of hope that you consider the idea. And so there's this of the stages of change. I kind of think they're handy. I don't say it very often but for a lot of people
Gwenevere Abriel: When they're coming in to a treatment program or in a pre contemplation, like, kind of like what you are you like, now my beyond is forever.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Or a lot of times with with tobacco. People are we, too, right. I don't know if that that that that don't even talk about it you know that's that's really the love is the we'd like don't even bring it up or tobacco, forget about. I can't remember.
Gwenevere Abriel: That he
Gwenevere Abriel: loves his
Justin’s iPhone: Own karmic words for Bercow
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, okay.
Justin’s iPhone: I'm trying to know from real hard, but
Justin’s iPhone: It's hard tobacco yarder quick than anything else.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I just tell you I have worked with crack addicts heroin. The whole deal. And it is. You know what I find the most difficult is tobacco and alcohol.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, you have a backhoe. That's the one. But I can tell you that I am seeing some progress, whether it's, you know, adding the peace with the worldview trend or maybe adding some of the little skills that you and I can talk about
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you mentioning it because you want to add it to a goal, like you're serious about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know contemplation like
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Down the line, so you
Justin’s iPhone: Know, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so why don't we start and there's lots to do, but one of the first things I want to see if you already have this
Gwenevere Abriel: What do we call it g. You can call it anything a grounding skill emotional coping skill, it does so much want to check in and see if you already have one of these
Gwenevere Abriel: And that is around the breast. When you were in rehab or maybe anywhere else because there they can be found in a lot of different places. Maybe through yoga or a lot of different practices.
Gwenevere Abriel: They talk about the importance of the breath. Does anyone kind of talk to you about how to use it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'm excited. Good. So why don't I do that, um, for today. I want to go into it and stop me if if I'm saying something you want clarification around. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'd like to do is teach you
Gwenevere Abriel: When I called belly breathing. I used to call it box breathing. But then people were forgetting the mechanism of change and that is this that the belly itself, kind of like you ever seen like a little puppy it when it's breathing. It's little Tommy goes like this.
You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: They breathe in really deep into their lungs. And I think as adults we have started just doing the shallow breaths up top and they're not
Gwenevere Abriel: They're not deep for us. So I want to talk a little bit about that. I'm going to teach it a role model it and then I'll guide it and we'll do it together.
Gwenevere Abriel: And don't be hard on yourself. If you find it difficult, most people if they've never done this before they find it kind of kind of awkward and like why. So, um, I want to talk to you about the science of it first. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's the Vegas nerve.
Gwenevere Abriel: In our in our body. It's also called the wandering or there's a nerve that goes right from this fine that the brain, all the way down to, well, actually.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it goes to our is our facial muscles. This little loose bone in our air, it goes to the lyrics in Fairbanks, it was a heart.
Gwenevere Abriel: To lungs to stomach to sleep all our guts. Okay. It just goes truck. That's why it's called a wandering, there goes all over the place.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what's amazing is and I'm going to teach this die from attic breathing to you. But what is the mechanism that's actually happening is, so let's say you're in the middle of the day.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're having a word he thought, Are you someone who kind of like, oh, I'm worried about the future I wonderful
Gwenevere Abriel: Like a lot of people. It's like a wonderful health money I wonderful disappoint someone I wonder if they're going to reject me and they were like that. Is that something you ever do like worry
Justin’s iPhone: No.
Justin’s iPhone: Stress no
Gwenevere Abriel: Stress a lot. That's the one we this stress a lot the belly breathing is going to be great for that. So this is what is happening. So I'm giving you this like a biological explanation of it first. And I'm going to show you. So what's happening is
Gwenevere Abriel: When you breathe. Notice my shoulders. Most of us do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was my shoulders going up and down.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And it looks like I'm taking a full breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not. I'm mostly just breathing short shallow breaths at the top of my lungs. But when I take a breath and I specifically as expanding a balloon down here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I bring in there all the way and it's going to be starting with my nose can go all the way in and it's going to expand all the way to the bottom of the lung.
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't feel like as much as going in, it feels a little awkward, what's happening is all of the air is now feeling down at the bottom of the lung. It's pressing down on a diaphragm. You know what that is right. As the sort of like horizontal
Gwenevere Abriel: The middle of the body. So it's so amazing. So then that full long press down on the Oregon's below sending. Now remember, remember that Vegas nerve, which is all wrapped around or viscera the organs. Remember that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what happens
Gwenevere Abriel: When you do that breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: It sends a message from bottom up like this, a fairly which means up sends a message up to the remember the stress that you were having oh my gosh, oh my gosh, thought
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh dear online if, what if, what if, what if, what if, what happens is when that message comes up as a signal or comes up that Vegas nerve center message the brain that says, guess what we're okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're okay. How could. How could that be the message. You want to know why. Think about it. When you and I are you and I are about to throw blows you and I are going to hopefully not fight course, I'm all the way in Florida, so feel pretty safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's say you and I were a oh we got a threat response like our hands come up here and we're ready to like protect our inner body or if we need to run right so with flight or flight response. What happens is we have
Gwenevere Abriel: Think about it. When we're pissed off, we're not doing belly breathing work.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're up here. Nice short take breath. Oh, we're popping off with little remarks and we were in a nice little argument or maybe we're getting physical we're sure not having deep belly breath. So once again.
Gwenevere Abriel: What happens when we breathe deeply that message goes up like this and says, hey, bring we're fine. You know how we know we're fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because there's no way we would be breathing deeply if there was a lion or a tiger or a bear, or some life or limb danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this message is in complete contradiction to the stress thought dink dink dink. And so eventually it wins. It says, For this body to be that calm that relaxed. You know what
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's relax the heart rate, let the demand for oxygen can go down and we are in a relaxed state. So this breathing, believe it or not, from the body up
Gwenevere Abriel: In contradict that stress thought
Gwenevere Abriel: That's cool. It's not just the mind, we can actually work with the body to send a message up and say, stress, but we're okay. This is just proceed from there is actually no one trying to kill us. Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: At right it's a physiological fact because here we are. There's no way you're going to breathe like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: If someone's trying to hurt you.
Justin’s iPhone: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so this is part of that reptilian
Gwenevere Abriel: instinctual piece that that we're
Gwenevere Abriel: We're contradicting we're saying you're not in a. You don't need to be in a threat response, there's no actual danger. This is all just perceived threat, there's no actual danger. That's what the message is so I just gave you some of some
Gwenevere Abriel: The poly bagel theory is a very complex one, but that's a really important piece of it when dealing with the breath work.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now I'd like to show it to you. So I'm just gonna show it to you don't have to do it right now. You're more than welcome to. But I'm going to do is the teaching. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can see like I'm in a square already, right, because I'm in this phone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or whatever. So I used to teach this box breathing, but the same year to see my finger kind of still making a square
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's going to look like this. What I'm going to be inviting is not only a four count inhale through the nose using mindfulness, which means I'm going to pay attention to how it feels.
Gwenevere Abriel: To have the air go in my nose. In other words, I can, I can feel the nose hairs. I can kind of feel how cool it is going in there and it's going to go into the nose and where's it going to go
Gwenevere Abriel: Autumn is along
Gwenevere Abriel: Very my when I do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll be instructing you they're going to actually be on the stomach because most of us are like. This is so weird and you you'll be like, oh, I want to try and get those hands to expand kinda like that puppy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Want to have like a balloon animals proof on the inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just so weird. For some people, okay, so don't be surprised if it's awkward for you, but
Gwenevere Abriel: The basic instructions will be these these it'll be a inhale through the nose for four seconds. So it'll be 1234 and then get ready for this. You're going to hold your breath for four seconds and then you're going to exhale out of the mouth quiet intentionally
Gwenevere Abriel: Where you can actually feel it, because again it's not just and I can go into sort of the cognitive part
Gwenevere Abriel: About how this intentional sort of breathing. What it can do to shift the focus off that stress by we were talking about earlier. Okay, I stress a lot
Gwenevere Abriel: But must just
Gwenevere Abriel: This for now say I'm going to do it this lady's way whatever this is, when she must be doing. So Imma, imma see if it's any good. So you want to try and do it my way. And then you'll find okay
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm kind of cool to do it this way with what's called fidelity and it'll be it'll be an inhale for for
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll be a hold your breath you so that big belly will stay there for four seconds and then you'll be exhaling out of the mouth for four seconds just Flat. Flat. Flat you'll be deflating the balloon.
Justin’s iPhone: Will deflate the balloon for four seconds. And guess what
Gwenevere Abriel: The final part, you won't have any breath for four seconds. So it's 4444 is inhale for for hold the breath for four exhale for four seconds. Hold the breath for for
Gwenevere Abriel: Now here's the reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: I exhale is longer and I hate not having air in my lungs. So I noticed that what ends up happening is after I've exhaled
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't like not having air and I'm eager to get that thing back not really like exhaling keeping nowhere in there for four seconds. And you're probably going to find your own groove, like, Yeah, you know, I like
Gwenevere Abriel: A certain number. That's fine. It's not the number remember what's making the difference. The mechanism of action and change is what that air down at the bottom of the long pressing down on those Oregon sending a signal a fairly up to the brain, saying, we're good enough.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we're good, we're good. So that's what we're looking for. So we now. So that's all the the biological part. Rather, it's actually a bottom up explanation. I'm going to give you one more piece. Now, all of that said all of this part.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't have to believe it's going to work for it to work.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is not a psychological hack. This is biology that I think it's just the coolest
Gwenevere Abriel: Quality. A lot of times it's like, Yeah, you gotta believe that. Right, right. I don't believe it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I really like about the breath is you can pay this ain't gonna work. The whole time, if you want to. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I don't think you're going to be able to, because it actually takes so much concentration, if you're doing it with fidelity that guess what, let's say I'm having a one. If something happens.
Gwenevere Abriel: What if I CAN'T PAY THIS DO THIS BE THIS RIGHT stress about stress. But what if something happens, what if something happens when you're doing this.
Gwenevere Abriel: The way I'm instructing it. That's what that word fidelity is kind of referring to, which means for for for for
Gwenevere Abriel: It takes so much concentration and it gets your mind off of that stress. So not only is it working bottom up. It's awesome. Working top down.
Gwenevere Abriel: To cognitive rumination to so this thing is the all time favorite of everything that last for for my clients all the psychological stuff that we do that goes sort of in on the unconscious, but this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is the one. People really stick with it changes their lives, believe it or not. So first thing I want you guys to sit down. Okay, so
Justin’s iPhone: I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Going to do one in front of you and then actually first I'm going to see how you
Gwenevere Abriel: How you can do with just the inhale part so don't worry about the timing. I just want to see if you can get those hands to move out a little bit on your inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you inhale, do you feel the air kind of straighten out your postures. You're not slumped over so there's room in there. So kind of put your shoulders back. If you inhale, can you make your hands push out a little bit on the inhale, with a full belly will expand on inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you feel how beer that is different.
Justin’s iPhone: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Totally different. OK, and now go back up here and feel the differences. The high
Just to
Gwenevere Abriel: Wrap up top. This one you feel how it's up here.
Justin’s iPhone: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And shoulders rise and fall
Gwenevere Abriel: Now we go down to the valley. Do it again. Just, just to see just the skill of the belly art, you're going to notice if you do it where the, where the bellies expanding your shoulders won't rise and fall watch. I'm going to do it you won't even see my shoulders Nov.
Maybe a little
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so do you. But this is the time to check in with me and say, you know what I thought this would be easy of getting the air to go and having my belly kind of felt like a balloon is harder than I thought.
Are you feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, cool. And you just did the most difficult part. So, what
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to see, I won't be able to count and hold my breath. So I'm going to, you're going to see me kind of do this 321 you probably I'll probably see me do
Gwenevere Abriel: And then exhale, down here is going to look like that. Okay, so let's do I'm going to do one in front of you, you can start
Gwenevere Abriel: Whenever you want, but I'm going to go ahead and start guiding so
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to be inhale for four
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhale,
Justin’s iPhone: Inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhale out the mouth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Through the nose expanding the lower
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold
Gwenevere Abriel: Out the mouth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Out the mouth. Let's get all the arrows. So you want to deflate that balloon out flat belly even hold it out, no breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I want to check in, because I can only see you from here.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to be a challenge for me to guide you. But today, we're just starting orienting and you'll start to see that it will be more effective, more of your body.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I can see the more effective our work will be together. But I want to just check in with you first. Um, that was just some instruction. Are you ready to just to follow and go with me as I'm guiding. Are you ready
Justin’s iPhone: Yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um, you may decide to keep your eyes open, only because I won't be able to count while I'm holding my breath. So you'll see me doing this.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're going to start with it. Get all of our air out right now, get it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And inhale for 4321 Hold, hold, hold, hold. Exhale out the mouth, get it all out out deflate that belly. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Good and hold it out. Three, two, an inhale through the nose, big belly breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good hold
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhale out the mouth that it all out. Feel the
Gwenevere Abriel: Places out of your mouth flat net belly really notice on the skin feels good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's inhale through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold it there for 321 exhale out the mouth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 inhale through the nose expand that belly good hold
Gwenevere Abriel: Itself out of the mouth, let it all out flat, flat, flat tummy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then hold it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Through the nose expanding that air bottom of the long
And hold
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's exhale. The mouth out of the mouth.
Gwenevere Abriel: very deliberately feeling the air as it exits the mouse in the belly goes Flat. Flat. Flat. Flat. Flat good and let's hold
Gwenevere Abriel: 321 let's inhale through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me check in with you. Let me see how you're doing because it's hard for me it's on. How you doing,
Justin’s iPhone: Good, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what did you notice so far.
Justin’s iPhone: Just sort of just sort of brings down your anxiety.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your anxiety went down. Where did your body. Did you notice the marker for my anxiety went down. Where do you notice that
Justin’s iPhone: Look on the third birth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Excellent. After the third breath you notice a change. Where did you notice in your body.
Gwenevere Abriel: And for a lot of people this somatic awareness is brand new, but your body's, the one that knows whether it's stress, doesn't it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, where did you notice it shifted
Justin’s iPhone: monocle.
Justin’s iPhone: Explain.
Justin’s iPhone: Explain that.
Justin’s iPhone: Just calm down, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so here's what I'm guessing. Remember how I said earlier that when we are in a state of distress, what you call, Hey, I stress a lot when yeah I stress a lot
Gwenevere Abriel: What happens is oftentimes our heart rate increases.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oftentimes, our breath is rapid and we feel tight here. Oftentimes people when they feel stress their stomach goes like this more
Gwenevere Abriel: They get a knot in a twist and they almost feel nauseous. For some people they get tight here. Some people would in their body. They grind their teeth.
Gwenevere Abriel: For some people it's a scowl. It's a tightness in the neck their thighs may tighten their toes may curl.
Gwenevere Abriel: Those are examples of when I've said to people. Where did you notice a shift that you are calmer that you are not as anxious. Now, you see what I'm saying about what how the body has a message, how it knows when it's calm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. And so what I just noticed in talking with you is that this might feel a little different for you like body awareness, what
Justin’s iPhone: A little different.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's gonna be a fair amount of that will do lots of cognitive behavioral stuff will do lots of
Gwenevere Abriel: Sort of coping skills developing coping skills you we can weave in as much spirituality, as you want, but there will also be this piece that is kind of different. For a lot of people. And that's the somatic inquiry, which means what just happened to the body.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like right and that's for a lot of people, brand new because their whole life, they've been trying to ignore the messages from the body.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wouldn't want to be in my own body. Why would I want to feel it.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is radically different.
Gwenevere Abriel: Being able to maybe there's wisdom in my physiology. Maybe I was born.
Gwenevere Abriel: With everything I need to heal myself as in I need the messages of pain to say something's wrong. There's a new injury here or this one's not healed yet what the what do take care of me right pain is an important message.
Justin’s iPhone: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: A lot of people that's revolutionary. They're like, I just don't want it and I don't want to talk about it and I don't want to feel it. So this idea of looking at the body and saying, Well, where did I just feel that stress response. So if you're up for it. I've got a challenge for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number one, see if you can remember. See if you can remember to do the belly breathing at least three times this week.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. A lot of people
Gwenevere Abriel: They come back and they say, Oh, yeah, yeah, I did it. Some people say that what I forgot already don't give yourself a hard time if you forget I will go over all of this as much or as little as you need. But it's so important to people.
Gwenevere Abriel: That
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to see me sort of kind of encouraging us to go over it again if it is forgotten. But if you forgot it. I completely understand. Okay, but the invitation homework, if you will, if you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is to at least do it three times this week and you may want to consider doing it when you're starting to have one of those whatever thoughts during the day, which you call stress a lot
Gwenevere Abriel: When said to do. She said, belly breathing. It was 4444
Gwenevere Abriel: And to really concentrate on the number and why does she want me to concentrate on than ever because it just strikes me for my way of thought because concentrating on it. The mind absolutely loves learning something new.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's whole attention is on it and it will get your mind off of that worry thought. So it's working. Bottom up with the physiology of the Vegas nerve and top down because it's taking so much focus attention. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um, let's schedule another appointment for next week, the one for I have something written in it so
Gwenevere Abriel: That isn't
Gwenevere Abriel: isn't there anymore and
Justin’s iPhone: Or 10am 10am is too hard for me.
Justin’s iPhone: Either like seven seven or anytime after five
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and and i don't see people with bright heart health at that point. So we're kind of lumped together over here in the book, and you're you're saying morning
Gwenevere Abriel: And I think, I think that's why you know you were sort of assigned to that 7am group is because you're doing it before this work life kind of kicks into gear. I got you. So how would you feel a mile may, you may 20 I see someone at six in the morning. She's an early bird.
Gwenevere Abriel: May 20 and then I would see you
Gwenevere Abriel: At seven
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe made one
Justin’s iPhone: That's fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you definitely want to get that in your phone and
Justin’s iPhone: These little theory.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. So just so you know, I'm an independent contractor. Right. So when you don't show up to an appointment. I don't have anybody to see sometimes I'm able to pull it off.
Gwenevere Abriel: But 24 hours is really, I think, a reasonable time for me to sort of reach out to other clients and say, Hey, I have a last minute opening there might be times when you're going to want it to.
Gwenevere Abriel: Be 24 hours so that I can offer that spot to someone else and you can text me and say, Hey, you know, the night before. I'm pretty good about saying hey let's confirm the night before you can say, oh, I, blah, blah, blah, blah. Whatever your, your explanation is and then I can offer
Gwenevere Abriel: But oftentimes in the beginning of treatment medication is bridged to individual and then a group, and that'll change once you kind of have some consistency on board, then it'll those scripts will get more distributed there'll be longer days. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're, you're going to, I'll see you tomorrow morning, and then your next individual therapy is may 20
Justin’s iPhone: Oh, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I was a pleasure to talk with you. I'm glad you made it here this morning are
Justin’s iPhone: You have a great day.
Gwenevere Abriel: You too. Bye bye.